in this video we're going to look at my
favorite options trading system
unlike most youtube trading videos this
won't be a video
in which you will learn that you should
buy when some moving average crosses a
sacred price level
and sell when rsi drops below 60 or some
other nonsense
instead you will learn about an actual
trading style that has been properly
researched
back tested and is used by giant
institutional trading firms
every day in fact just to give you an
example
the second largest hedge fund aqr
capital with
70 billion dollars in assets under
management says that
historical analysis shows positive
returns and a respectable sharpe ratio
over time
moreover the strategy has had low
correlations to well-known return
sources
suggesting that the strategy can be
diversifying when added to a portfolio
and the world's largest asset management
firm with over 6 trillion
yes trillion with a t u.s dollars in
assets under management has adopted this
approach and says
that with this strategy investors have
the potential to capture outsized
returns over long horizons with smaller
drawdowns
with that being said let us start by
looking at the idea behind this trading
strategy
the vast majority of investors have most
of their portfolio allocated to various
long equity investments
these investments come with significant
downside risks which investors obviously
want to avoid or at least reduce as much
as possible
one way to reduce downward risk is by
buying volatility
which has a significant inverse
correlation to most long equity
positions
buying volatility products can be
thought of as buying insurance against
market crashes or other significant down
moves
like most insurance products these
trading strategies
tend to have a negative expected return
this means
that the insurance often wasn't actually
necessary
but like with other insurances due to
risk aversion most people are okay with
paying a premium
since these products can reduce the max
drawdown and volatility of your
portfolio
to make this clear let's look at a brief
thought experiment
if these insurance-like products when
not trading at a premium
there would be absolutely no incentive
to sell them
surplus of buyers compared to sellers
would then lead to an
increase in the price until they are
trading at a sufficient enough premium
for the seller
so it wouldn't make sense if they
weren't trading at a premium
this chart compares the recent
performance of an s p
500 portfolio hedged with put options at
an unprotected s p 500 portfolio
as you can see during this time frame
the insured portfolio
significantly underperformed the
unprotected one
due to this negative expected return of
insurance buyers
the opposite trading strategy nearly
selling the insurance has a positive
expected return
instead of paying a premium for the
insurance you take the opposite trade
and receive a premium for selling the
insurance
in slightly more technical terms this
premium means that the implied
volatility is higher than the actual
realized volatility
implied volatility can be thought of as
the expected future volatility
extracted from an option's price when
investors expect high upcoming
volatility
they tend to buy more options which
pushes options prices up
and thus implied volatility as well but
since implied volatility
tends to overestimate actual volatility
options tend to be overpriced which
creates an attractive opportunity for
option sellers
especially shortly after financial
crisis and crashes
investors put more weight on protecting
their portfolio which is a great time to
sell overpriced insurance
but how do you actually sell the
insurance
effectively selling the insurance is the
tricky part and there is certainly more
than one way to do this
but in this video i will focus on an
option selling approach
since in my opinion this is the best
approach for retail traders
one of the main factors influencing
options prices
is implied volatility option buyers
profit from increases in implied
volatility whereas option sellers
profit from decreasing implied
volatility the sensitivity of an option
price towards changes in iv
is measured by the option greek vega for
example
a vega of three would mean that a
position would gain three dollars
for every one percent increase in
implied volatility
as an insurance seller we always want a
negative vega position
so that we can profit from the
volatility premium as well as decreasing
iv
there are a multitude of option
strategies that have negative vega
values
for instance both short calls and short
puts have negative vehicles
which makes selling puts or calls a
viable strategy
it is important however to note that
these strategies are also affected by
changes in the underlying assets price
so if the underlying security moves in
the wrong direction you could still lose
money
even if implied volatility moved
favorably this does not necessarily make
selling puts or calls a bad strategy
but it does certainly cloud your
volatility exposure
directional exposure is measured by the
option greek delta
and one possible solution to this
problem is to focus on delta neutral
strategies
these are strategies that aren't
directly affected by changes in the
underlying securities price
possible examples include strangles
stratos and iron condors
but since delta is dynamic it changes
together with the underlying
price which means that these strategies
will also be affected by big enough
price moves
the concrete implementation of a
negative vega strategy
can be arbitrarily complex but some of
the easiest ways to gain negative
volatility exposure
is by sending put options or covered
calls both of these strategies have
limited risk
and limited profit potential next up
let's take a look at the historical
performance of this strategy
to do this let's firstly analyze the
spread between historical
and implied volatility of the s p 500
index
this chart plots both the realized and
implied volatility
of the s p 500 index over the past 10
years
as you can see the vast majority of the
time
iv is greater than hv this pattern tends
to hold true for most time frames that i
looked at
to closely examine the difference we can
look at this second chart that plots the
spread
between historical and implied
volatility when the red graph is above
zero
implied volatility overestimates
historical volatility
and as you can see this is the case most
of the time
there are a few exceptions however the
most noticeable being the big drop
during the crash of march
2020 but apart from a few exceptions
this chart looks quite promising for
volatility insurance sellers
in fact a report from cambridge
associates states that
implied volatility has overestimated
historical volatility
almost 87 of the time from 1990
until march of 2011. obviously
there are countless ways to implement a
volatility selling trading system
which makes it hard to evaluate the
performance of this strategy as a whole
but to give you an example of the
performance of a few specific
implementations
we can use some of cboe strategy
benchmark indexes
more specifically we will look at three
different option selling strategies
let's start with cboe's put right index
this index tracks a theoretical
portfolio that sells
30 day s p 500 at the money put options
against collateralized cash reserves
these put options profit from a drop in
implied volatility
as well as an increase in spx's price
the next strategy is benchmarked by bxmd
which is cbo's s p 530 delta buy right
index
this index sells a 30 delta covered call
every month
while simultaneously holding a long s p
500 position
this is a very simple strategy that can
be adopted by almost anyone
the payoff diagram of a covered call
position looks like this
the x axis represents the underlying
price and the y-axis represents the p
l as you can see the profit potential of
this strategy is limited to a certain
amount
this is the case for all short option
strategies
the asymmetrical payoff is another
reason why it makes sense that options
are trading at a premium
the last strategy we're going to look at
is benchmark by cbo's
s p 500 covered combo index this is more
or less
a combination of the past two indexes
this benchmark tracks a theoretical
portfolio
that sells s p 500 strangles against
cash reserves
one advantage of selling strangles is
that they are delta neutral strategies
which means that they are less affected
by changes in the underlying
price now that you hopefully understand
what these benchmark indexes track
let's look at their performance this
chart compares the past performance of
these indexes
and the s p 500 over the past 20 years
during this time frame all of them
significantly outperformed the s p 500
index
the best performing strategy here is the
covered coil portfolio
then the short put strategy and finally
the short strangle index
note that depending on the time frame
you look at the results might differ
significantly
if we look at the standard deviation of
the daily returns
of these benchmarks during the same time
frame we see that
all of them once again outperformed the
s p 500
index as their returns are less volatile
over this time period
hopefully this gives you an impression
of what selling volatility
has to offer with that being said it is
important to note that these were just a
few examples of how you could implement
an option selling strategy
there are countless other possible
variations that might have much better
or worse returns one possible variation
that i briefly want to mention
is to dynamically change your short vega
allocation depending on the current
state of implied volatility
if for instance iv currently is
relatively low
it might not be the best time to sell
volatility
but if implied volatility and those
options prices
are abnormally high it might be a great
time to sell insurance products at a
juicy premium
last but not least let's sum up some of
the most important points of this video
firstly volatility has a strong negative
correlation to most equity portfolios
which means that long volatility
strategies can be used as an insurance
policy against market drops
these insurance products tend to trade
at a premium which creates an
opportunity for sellers
one way to sell this volatility
insurance is by selling options
there are many ways one could go about
doing this examples include selling
covered calls
puts strangles or straddles all of these
strategies have their advantages and
disadvantages
if the right implementation is chosen it
is certainly possible to trade a short
volatility strategy
with better returns and lower volatility
than a comparable long equity strategy
historically speaking short volatility
portfolios have had low correlation with
more common equity portfolios
which makes this strategy great for
diversification purposes
if you are considering adding a short
volatility strategy to your portfolio
here are a few things you need to look
out for firstly
selling options comes with significant
risks including the potential to lose
more than your initial investment
this means that risk management is
essential it is very important to keep
position sizes small
it is possible to limit your risk by
buying out of the money options
as a protection against outsized moves
in the wrong direction
but doing this also has its
disadvantages
secondly it is very important to have a
long-term approach when selling
volatility
just like with real insurance selling
the law of large numbers applies to
selling volatility
no insurance firm would be opened if
they only had two or three clients
the risk of doing this is way too high
since the profits from one client
would never cover the potential losses
of another client
the risk to reward ratio for insurance
sellers is very bad
but this is compensated by a high
probability of profit
this probability of profit however can
only be realized
with a high enough number of occurrences
the same applies to selling options you
need a long-term perspective to reap the
benefits of
insurance selling with that being said i
really hope you enjoyed this video
if you're interested in learning more
about options i highly recommend
checking out my website
furthermore i highly recommend checking
out some of the papers and sources that
are used for this video
you can find a list of the sources in
the description box below
otherwise make sure to like subscribe
and turn on the notification bell for
more content like this
thanks for watching
you